README.md, before:

# Lottery dApp

This project was bootstrapped with [Truffle]([https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app](https://github.com/trufflesuite/truffle/)).

```bash
npm install -g truffle
truffle unbox react
```

## Prerequisites

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/) command line interface
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) command line interface
- [Metamask Extension](https://metamask.io/) for your browser (including wallet)
- [Ganache-CLI](https://github.com/trufflesuite/ganache-cli) to spin up a blockchain with instant mining

> We **don't** use [Ganache](https://truffleframework.com/ganache) at the moment, as it fails somehow. Everything works though with Ganache-CLI. If at some point we switch back, the README should be updated.

## Setup

_onetime setup_

### Clone the Project

```bash
git clone https://github.com/alexscheitlin/lottery-dapp

# or

git clone git@github.com:alexscheitlin/lottery-dapp
```

### Set up Client

```bash
cd lottery-dapp/client/
npm install
```
_Detailed information can be found here: [README](./client/README.md)._

### Install Truffle

```bash
npm install -g truffle

# or

sudo npm install -g truffle
```

### Install Ganache-CLI
Install with `@beta` to get the latest updates which fixes a bug that caused wrong gas estimations ([more details](https://github.com/trufflesuite/ganache-cli/releases/tag/v6.4.2-beta.0)).

```bash
npm install -g ganache-cli@beta

# or

sudo npm install -g ganache-cli@beta
```

### Setup Metamask

1. Start a local blockchain with `ganache-cli` in a terminal - which will most likely be running on: `http://127.0.0.1:8545`).
2. Open `Metamask` in your browser and login with your wallet.
3. Click on the network dropdown and select _Custom RPC_.
4. Scroll down and enter the copied `RPC Server` of `ganache-cli` into the _New RPC URL_ field.
5. Hit _Save_.
6. Switch to your `ganache-cli` an copy one of the private keys.
7. Back in `Metamask`, click on the _colored circle_ on the top right and select _Import Account_.
8. Paste the private key from `ganache-cli` and hit _Import_. You should now be logged in with an Account from the `ganache-cli` network with a balance of _100 ETH_.

## Run Environment

_everytime to run the environment_

1. Pull the latest commits:
   ```bash
   # Terminal Tab #1
   cd /path/to/lottery-dapp
   git pull
   ```
2. Start local blockchain with `ganache-cli`.
3. Compile the `Smart Contracts`:
   ```bash
   # Terminal Tab #1
   truffle compile
   ```
4. Deploy the `Smart Contracts` on the `Ganache` network:
   ```bash
   # Terminal Tab #1
   truffle migrate --reset
   ```
4. Start the `Truffle` console:
   ```bash
   # Terminal Tab #1
   truffle console
   ```
5. Start the `React` client:
   ```bash
   # Terminal Tab #2
   cd /path/to/lottery-dapp/client
   npm install
   npm start
   ```
6. `localhost:3000` should be opened automatically in your browser

Commit message:

add contribution workflow to README.md

README.md, after:

# Lottery dApp

This project was bootstrapped with [Truffle]([https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app](https://github.com/trufflesuite/truffle/)).

```bash
npm install -g truffle
truffle unbox react
```

## Contribution Workflow

0. (Optional) Create a new issue and add it to the _To Do_ column of _Lottery dApp_ project
1. Assign yourself an issue from the _To Do_ column of the _Lottery dApp_ project and move it to the _In Progress_ column
2. Pull the latest changes from `origin/master`
3. Create a new local branch beginning with the issue number (e.g., `4-feature`).
4. Commit to this branch mentioning the issue number in the commit message (e.g. `add functionality xyz (#4)`
5. Finish your implementation on the branch
6. Pull and merge the latest changes from `origin/master` into your local branch
7. Verify that your changes still work as expected
8. Merge your branch into `master` and push the changes
9. Move the issue to the _Done_ column of the _Lottery dApp_ project

## Prerequisites

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/) command line interface
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) command line interface
- [Metamask Extension](https://metamask.io/) for your browser (including wallet)
- [Ganache-CLI](https://github.com/trufflesuite/ganache-cli) to spin up a blockchain with instant mining

> We **don't** use [Ganache](https://truffleframework.com/ganache) at the moment, as it fails somehow. Everything works though with Ganache-CLI. If at some point we switch back, the README should be updated.

## Setup

_onetime setup_

### Clone the Project

```bash
git clone https://github.com/alexscheitlin/lottery-dapp

# or

git clone git@github.com:alexscheitlin/lottery-dapp
```

### Set up Client

```bash
cd lottery-dapp/client/
npm install
```
_Detailed information can be found here: [README](./client/README.md)._

### Install Truffle

```bash
npm install -g truffle

# or

sudo npm install -g truffle
```

### Install Ganache-CLI
Install with `@beta` to get the latest updates which fixes a bug that caused wrong gas estimations ([more details](https://github.com/trufflesuite/ganache-cli/releases/tag/v6.4.2-beta.0)).

```bash
npm install -g ganache-cli@beta

# or

sudo npm install -g ganache-cli@beta
```

### Setup Metamask

1. Start a local blockchain with `ganache-cli` in a terminal - which will most likely be running on: `http://127.0.0.1:8545`).
2. Open `Metamask` in your browser and login with your wallet.
3. Click on the network dropdown and select _Custom RPC_.
4. Scroll down and enter the copied `RPC Server` of `ganache-cli` into the _New RPC URL_ field.
5. Hit _Save_.
6. Switch to your `ganache-cli` an copy one of the private keys.
7. Back in `Metamask`, click on the _colored circle_ on the top right and select _Import Account_.
8. Paste the private key from `ganache-cli` and hit _Import_. You should now be logged in with an Account from the `ganache-cli` network with a balance of _100 ETH_.

## Run Environment

_everytime to run the environment_

1. Pull the latest commits:
   ```bash
   # Terminal Tab #1
   cd /path/to/lottery-dapp
   git pull
   ```
2. Start local blockchain with `ganache-cli`.
3. Compile the `Smart Contracts`:
   ```bash
   # Terminal Tab #1
   truffle compile
   ```
4. Deploy the `Smart Contracts` on the `Ganache` network:
   ```bash
   # Terminal Tab #1
   truffle migrate --reset
   ```
4. Start the `Truffle` console:
   ```bash
   # Terminal Tab #1
   truffle console
   ```
5. Start the `React` client:
   ```bash
   # Terminal Tab #2
   cd /path/to/lottery-dapp/client
   npm install
   npm start
   ```
6. `localhost:3000` should be opened automatically in your browser
